README.md, before:

IRL Random Number Generator using a [Raspberry Pi](raspberry-pi) with a [Camera
Module](camera-module). I'm using a Model B but any model with a camera module
and wireless should work.

## Getting started

Start off by creating a `config.mk` file with the following values filled in:

```make
PIUSER = <username of user in Raspberry Pi>
PIADDR = <ip address of Raspberry Pi>
SERVUSER = <username of user in server>
SERVADDR = <ip address of server>
```

## Building

Besides the hardware, you'll need `openssl`, Go + dep for building the project,
and NATS running on a server. NATS is used to communicate between the server
(running on a server) and the client (running on a Raspberry Pi.) Once you have
`openssl` on your build machine, you can generate a self-signed cert with
`make cert`. This generates `cert.pem` and `key.pem` which will be pushed to
the server and client.

You can build the project for the Raspberry Pi with `make arm`. And assuming
your server is running Linux on an amd64 architecture, you can build for that
with `make amd64`. Once built, deploy with `make deploy`. This last command
uses `scp` to copy the files over to the two devices. This can be configured
using the contents of the `config.mk` file you created.

```bash
make amd64 deploy
```


## Setting up the server

On your server, install `gnatsd` with the command below:

```bash
go get github.com/nats-io/gnatsd
```

After deploying your code, you can start up the NATS server and application
server with the following commands:

```bash
cd ~/diceshaker
gnatsd --tls --tlscert cert.pem --tlskey key.pem
```


```bash
./diceshaker -role server
```

The last command will bind to port 8080 on localhost and listen to HTTP
requests. Going to `/` will trigger a roll event. By default it'll know how to
look up the certificate files but all of this can be configured:

```text
$ ./diceshaker -help
Usage of ./diceshaker:
  -certfile string
        Path to certificate file (default "cert.pem")
  -connect string
        NATS server URL (default "nats://localhost:4222")
  -keyfile string
        Path to key file (default "key.pem")
  -listen string
        Host and port for HTTP requests (default ":8080")
  -role string
        Is this a server or a client?
  -verify
        Controls whether a client verifies the server's certificate chain and host name
```


## Setting up the client (Raspberry Pi)

```bash
sudo systemctl enable ssh
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo raspi-config
```

This will enable ssh on startup, do a system update, and start the
configuration manager. Once started, arrow down to "Interface Options", find
the "Camera" setting, and when asked to enable it, select "&lt;Yes&gt;". You'll
now be prompted to reboot, which you should do. After the reboot you can test
things out by running `raspistill -o img.jpg`. If all worked you should get a
popup ui window with a preview of the camera's image. It'll take a photo in
five seconds.

After deploying your code, you can start the client with the following
commands:

```bash
cd ~/diceshaker
./diceshaker -role client -connect nats://<NATSSERVERHOST>:4222
```

## systemd

If you'd like to add the server and client programs as services managed by
systemd, you can use a script included with this project to generate the
configuration. The target `systemd` will generate the service files using this
configuration found in `config.mk` but you can also generate your own. The
`deploy-systemd` target will push the files to the remote machines.

```bash
make systemd deploy-systemd
```

Or see `./gensystemd --help` for additional help with generating them manually.

[raspberry-pi]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/
[camera-module]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/camera-module-v2/

Commit message:

updating description and adding hardware section

README.md, after:

IRL Random Number Generator web service that physically shakes a box with dice
in it using a Raspberry Pi, then snaps a photo which is analyzed for a result and
sent back to the user.


## Hardware requirements

- [Raspberry Pi][raspberry-pi], I'm using a Model B but any model with a camera
  module and wireless should work.
- [Camera Module][camera-module]
- [Dice][dice], any will do as long as they're white with black dots.


## Getting started

Start off by creating a `config.mk` file with the following values filled in:

```make
PIUSER = <username of user in Raspberry Pi>
PIADDR = <ip address of Raspberry Pi>
SERVUSER = <username of user in server>
SERVADDR = <ip address of server>
```

## Building

Besides the hardware, you'll need `openssl`, Go + dep for building the project,
and NATS running on a server. NATS is used to communicate between the server
(running on a server) and the client (running on a Raspberry Pi.) Once you have
`openssl` on your build machine, you can generate a self-signed cert with
`make cert`. This generates `cert.pem` and `key.pem` which will be pushed to
the server and client.

You can build the project for the Raspberry Pi with `make arm`. And assuming
your server is running Linux on an amd64 architecture, you can build for that
with `make amd64`. Once built, deploy with `make deploy`. This last command
uses `scp` to copy the files over to the two devices. This can be configured
using the contents of the `config.mk` file you created.

```bash
make amd64 deploy
```


## Setting up the server

On your server, install `gnatsd` with the command below:

```bash
go get github.com/nats-io/gnatsd
```

After deploying your code, you can start up the NATS server and application
server with the following commands:

```bash
cd ~/diceshaker
gnatsd --tls --tlscert cert.pem --tlskey key.pem
```


```bash
./diceshaker -role server
```

The last command will bind to port 8080 on localhost and listen to HTTP
requests. Going to `/` will trigger a roll event. By default it'll know how to
look up the certificate files but all of this can be configured:

```text
$ ./diceshaker -help
Usage of ./diceshaker:
  -certfile string
        Path to certificate file (default "cert.pem")
  -connect string
        NATS server URL (default "nats://localhost:4222")
  -keyfile string
        Path to key file (default "key.pem")
  -listen string
        Host and port for HTTP requests (default ":8080")
  -role string
        Is this a server or a client?
  -verify
        Controls whether a client verifies the server's certificate chain and host name
```


## Setting up the client (Raspberry Pi)

```bash
sudo systemctl enable ssh
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo raspi-config
```

This will enable ssh on startup, do a system update, and start the
configuration manager. Once started, arrow down to "Interface Options", find
the "Camera" setting, and when asked to enable it, select "&lt;Yes&gt;". You'll
now be prompted to reboot, which you should do. After the reboot you can test
things out by running `raspistill -o img.jpg`. If all worked you should get a
popup ui window with a preview of the camera's image. It'll take a photo in
five seconds.

After deploying your code, you can start the client with the following
commands:

```bash
cd ~/diceshaker
./diceshaker -role client -connect nats://<NATSSERVERHOST>:4222
```

## systemd

If you'd like to add the server and client programs as services managed by
systemd, you can use a script included with this project to generate the
configuration. The target `systemd` will generate the service files using this
configuration found in `config.mk` but you can also generate your own. The
`deploy-systemd` target will push the files to the remote machines.

```bash
make systemd deploy-systemd
```

Or see `./gensystemd --help` for additional help with generating them manually.

[raspberry-pi]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/
[camera-module]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/camera-module-v2/
[dice]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000CEFNP6
